# RDARENet
Single Image Deraining Using a Recurrent Dual-Attention-Residual Ensemble Network
Abstract:  Rain streaks can severely degrade the quality of captured images and affect outdoor vision. However, due to non-uniform in shape, direction and density of rain in different images, it is a difficult task to remove rain from a single image. In this paper, we propose a single image deraining using an ensemble recurrent dual-attention-residual network, called RDARENet. In the network, as contextual information is very important for the process of rain removal, we first adopt a multi-scale dilated convolution network to acquire large receptive field. Rain streaks can be regards as the accumulation of multiple rain streak layers, to extract the features of the rain streaks and restore the background layer details, we use the residual of the channel attention and spatial attention mechanisms. The channel attention can assign different weights to rain streak layers, and the spatial attention enhances the representation of the area through the relationship between adjacent spatial features. As the network deepens, to prevent the loss of low-level information, a cascaded residual network and a long-term memory network are used to transmit low-level feature information to the upper layers to remove rain streaks stage by stage. In the output of the network, we adopt ensemble learning method to weight the output of each stage through the gated network to get the clean image. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the effect of removing rain and restoring texture details is greatly improved. 

